foreign
[Music]
business transformation is not just
about profit it's about the triple
bottom line planet people and profit
sustainability is at the Forefront of
business transformation programs
transformation realized powered by evi
is a brand new chapter where we bring to
you inspiring stories of business
transformation that have put human
technology and Innovation at the core
the penultimate episode of the series
explores one of India's largest fmcg
companies Pathway to sustainability and
its future plans sustainable business
transformation today is a key building
block towards growth strategy Innovation
and Technology Evolution are playing a
critical role in driving success and
leveraging the emerging Trends to
achieve scale and long-term growth now
this week on a six-part series of
transformation realized powered by ebuy
we bring you one such purpose-led
organization Hindustan Unilever limited
which has made sustainability the
Cornerstone of everything it does to
make sustainable living a common place
please welcome ritesh tiwari the
Executive Director of Finance and ID and
Chief Financial Officer of Hindustan
Unilever the ritesh is also an active
member of various industry bodies
including the chairman of the CFO
Council of Vicky he is also the senior
vice president of the Bombay Chamber of
Commerce and Industry and independent
director on the board of orndc as well
as a member of the CII National
Committee for CFOs also joining us today
is nitesh meherotra who is a partner e
by ESG consult building practice was
partnered with each UL on this
sustainability Journey nitesh ritesh
both of you thank you very much for
being with us here and my vision and you
know it's our pleasure as well and let
me start with you ritesh because you
know it's been a huge uh you know
transformation Journey for you going on
the sustainability path in 2020 to 10 I
think 2010 right that's right you
publicly announced your commitment
towards this with the Unilever uh what
you call the sustainable living plan
what's the journey being like what the
learnings have been along the way uh
written for us at Hindustan Unilever our
main purpose is to make sustainable
living commonplace we genuinely believe
that business and the entire area of ESG
is one of the same thing business is
equal to sustainability and assessment
is equal to business that's how we
Define our business model over last
decade we've done a lot of work in this
space uh because we believe that for any
business which has to work and drive
performance and grow it has to be built
on a very strong Foundation of
sustainability uh our Three core beliefs
are companies the purpose last Branch
with this purpose grow and people with
purpose Thrive if I look at last one
degree of Journey for us a lot of work
we have done 2021 we became plastic
neutral yeah we have zero uh ways which
goes to landfill we Empower more than
150 000 women in rural areas and
immediate micro entrepreneurs they bring
livelihood to their own house and be it
the area on Plastics be the agent water
be it area on livelihood all these area
us we have really focused upon in the
last more than a decade and the impact
is visible in what we have driven no the
impact is certainly visible when a large
company like yours takes that move and
you're a large conglomerate in the
country but you know what were the
triggers if I were to ask you for
accelerating this journey towards what
you call the Unilever compass and you
know what is the experience been like
there I think the main trigger for us is
that a business which is sustainable
also drives Superior business
performance that belief is at a core
heart of what we end up driving uh there
are three pillars to what we end up
doing it starts with that we have to
ensure that we're able to improve the
health of the planet we have to improve
health of people well-being and give
them confidence and thought equally
important increase time Society is very
important how are we able to contribute
to an equitable diverse society that
role as we do believe we have to place
corporate citizen today when I talk
about our own business as Hindustan
Unilever we multiple areas in which we
go and make commitments and it's the
public commitments which we've gone and
published in annual report as well let
me start naming a few of them if I look
at the planet a big job at this point in
time for us to us the whole world is
committing to Net Zero India has India's
vision of reaching that Zero by 2017. uh
our prime minister has very eloquently
spoken about that in cop 26. at
Hindustan Universe we have also
committed to ensure that by 2039 we will
be a net zero organization but we have
many Milestones as part of their journey
to reach where we wanted to reach for
example our clear goal is spawn in time
is where 2030 we will have half the
amount of intensity of carbon emissions
in our product range an example to give
if I talk about waste we are already a
plastic Mutual organization by 2021 but
we have to now take steps forward how do
we ensure that our entire business has
usage of plastic which is either
reusable or recyclable or compostable
that's a clear goal on which we are
working upon India has a massive Water
Challenge and we run a very large
program on creating water potential to
Hindustan delivery Foundation we have
aiming to create 3 trillion liter of
water potential that's the kind of
impact we want to create in that area
okay again when it comes to the entire
area of social impact we do believe that
everybody who's associated with our
business needs to earn a fair living
wage that's our goal that we want to
ensure that we earn and deliver by 2030.
so those are the few examples of what we
want to really drive across across
various impact areas yep you know uh
nitesh let me put the question to you
then because we're hearing large players
like hul talk about sustainability today
and it's important because they're not
the only ones we see more and more
companies adopt this take this more
seriously if I were to ask you what to
your mind has been the inflection point
uh you know for it to become a larger
more serious non-negotiable matter today
for companies
so without the two biggest challenges
facing Humanity today are climate change
and social inequality the world is at a
critical juncture and I think as ritesh
alluded to we not only have to walk the
talk but run the talk uh and I think the
good news is that there is increased
awareness and I would say uh
synchronized actions across stakeholders
uh whether it's the customer the
consumer whether it's investors
employees government and Regulators so
let me unpack a little bit in terms of
what we are seeing as actions uh yeah I
think first starting with the customer
the consumer I think our recent insights
from our future consumer index shows
that 43 percent of the global consumer
want to buy more from organizations that
are more sustainable products and
services which helps the society and
they are also willing to pay more for
certain categories I think more
importantly what we analyze is that 64
percent of the consumer are willing to
change their behavior in a manner that
it helps the environment and the society
so that's the from a customer consumer
standpoint I think investors we all know
there is increased demand for consistent
and comparable ESG performance whether
it's the public investors or the private
investors and I think that's very
critical for us to assess the leaders in
this space
third I would say I think there is a lot
of discussion around employee value
proposition and I think Unilever is a
great example where you know
organization which are driven by a
purpose employees are more driven
towards those organization I think
government there is a lot of policy
action as we are seeing from the Indian
government recently as all of us saw the
government has outlaid 35
000 crore towards green initiative and
we believe they'll have a multiplier
effect on the economy to create new
opportunities uh and a new economy for
all of us I think that's that's a great
action that we believe uh good to hear
those thoughts really and some of the
data coming behind that but we have to
take a very short break so stay with us
we'll be back in just a moment
[Music]
welcome back we're in conversation with
hul and ey on hul's sustainability
journey ritesh and nitish both of you
thank you very much for staying on with
us let me come back to you you know like
I said it's a journey uh there have been
challenges there must have been
challenges along the way there must have
been some trends that emerge but how did
the team really come together to see
some of the initial success that you've
seen in this transformation Journey yeah
the entire ahd trend has now genuinely
become a mega Trend uh the scale at
which people have adopted ESG as a
government as business model or as
people are getting conscious in the case
you're talking about has really defined
what our being today is uh we know what
uh today for example if you look at 2019
onwards last three years this five times
increase in asset under management which
are focused on eag business model we
know the commitment that we have is
India to reach Net Zero by 2017. uh
spoke about uh the entire brsr framework
I think India will end up taking first
giant step on reporting of non-financial
measures these Trends are pretty massive
today the entire senior leadership at
Hindustan Universe we get rewarded for
our long-term performance this is how
we're delivering on our system ready
Progress Index if you're not able to do
good job there remuneration of people
get impacted that's the level of
seriousness
absolutely uh even on day-to-day
operational basis for example uh when we
evaluate our own proposing of capital
allocation there's a threshold we should
Define on internal carbon pricing such
elements ensure that these are not left
at a high strategic level but they are
embedded very well in the organization
well interesting to hear and important
as well at this point of time given like
you said we have to run the talk not
walk the talk anymore but I think our
audience uh nitesh should also be
interested in finding out how did you go
about navigating this journey I mean
what were some of the steps that went
behind the scenes uh to realize this
kind of a transformation yeah so I think
as as ritesh mentioned it is it is a
complex journey and I would say there
are four phases to it I think the first
is uh reframing strategy in a way that
creates long-term value uh for the
Enterprise I think it's about both uh
protecting value as well as creating
value I think the second phase is really
about accelerating transition I think
ritesh touched upon it uh in a manner
that you know how do you create uh
change initiatives uh uh which addresses
the underlying business case right from
a sustainability standpoint as well as
from a business standpoint uh uh third I
think is very critical that how do you
govern and operate in a manner to embed
with within your ways of working in an
organization to really sustain these
these programs which are long drawn and
I would say last and not the least Ritu
is is is trust how do we I would say
communicate in terms of the journey that
creates confidence with our stakeholder
data that is traceable as well as
communicate the outcome that this
journey is creating as we go along uh I
think at a more operational level I
would say there are three questions that
all leading companies needs to be
answering I would say first one is where
are we now sustainability is not new to
any organization
so how do we really assess where are we
in the journey uh you know do a
baselining do a benchmarking among our
peers to have a context of the majority
of the journey where do we want to be
how do we accelerate our goals and uh
ambition and third I think it's very
important that how do we get there right
because without a plan it's just a goal
uh and and we believe uh as
riteshallured to uh governance uh and
digitizations are the key pillars to
help sustain uh you know these program
uh so I would say uh in summary uh the
journey is complex there are a lot of
interdependencies and trade-offs uh in a
journey and I think it's all about
balancing across multiple stakeholders
as well as multiple capitals that are
involved uh in the journey certainly
probably just somebody if you don't mind
the tune let me build on to what nitesh
mentioned I think if you look at the age
of challenge a big job to be done on
non-financial reporting for every ca for
every Finance team today the systems
processes technology tool it is your
point have been all tuned for financial
reporting World India today now is
encounting the challenge how do you end
up doing a good job job when you have to
report across multiple non-financial
parameters for which we have not set up
systems reporting for last several
decades but we have a CFO talking about
sustainability don't we absolutely
absolutely so just tell you what weed
about hindustanian River uh amount of
work that we do today in setting up
capability and setting up digital
capability to ensure you're able to
report on this information now fabulous
robust manner drive performance Cadence
in the organization because the
challenge out here is today resource
allocation can not only be done across
multiple priorities within the current
time Horizon you have to allocate
resources for today and tomorrow in case
you have to deliver this goals for
tomorrow and remember these are very
long commitments they will go across
multiple years so we also have a
challenge to ensure that your
Performance Management Systems will have
to Performance manage priorities and
deliverables which are multi-year
industry or a business which is not
sustainable in my view in our view will
not Thrive so every CFS job in my mind
going forward is to make a winning
business case for sustainability okay I
think that's an important message coming
from the Chief Financial Officer of a
company and I hope our audience takes
note of that but you know before we go
into another break let me you know come
back to your journey because it is the
journey like we said I mean it's a
process that is still ongoing but what
are the early successes that you've been
able to achieve if you could throw some
light on that as well yeah I think many
programs uh these area of entire ESG you
can't do your work for year one and move
on to something else this will have to
be multi-year multi-dikit programs the
water stewardship is a classic example
uh we have already delivered 1.9
trillion liter water potential we upped
our game now to 3 trillion liter we've
been acted on prabhat prabhat is our
community development initiative all the
neighborhood areas of our factories we
work on that beat on this stage be it on
uh energy conservation or other good
practices uh on Earth as a society that
you need to do so those are the areas
that we have really made impact upon the
journey going forward will have to
ensure that technology has to then
basically unlock itself and hence in my
mind resources has to come not only from
one organization but across multiple
organizations uh ESG is not a zero-sum
game uh every company will have to lean
in and join forces to ensure that we're
able to make progress all right so on
that note I'm going to have to take
another short break stay with us we're
going to be back in just a moment and
continue the conversation here
[Music]
welcome back we're in conversation with
eql and ey on this transformation
Journey thanks very much for staying on
with us and ritesh let me come back to
you uh you know when we talk about
sustainability whose responsibility
really is it is it the CEO is the chief
sustainability officer now even as a CFO
you're talking about it so you know
given how you've actively been involved
in what is not essentially a finance
role what would you advise me to some of
the other CFOs out there you know trying
to start on this journey or perhaps
somewhere middle of the journey what
would your advice be my general believer
to do that ASG is everybody's business
from classroom to boardroom and as CFO I
see ourselves as Chief value architect
our job as CFO is to ensure that our
business models are sustainable and we
have to bring business and sociality at
a common plate together we have a job
that we create value we also protect
value for creating value in today's time
of ESG we have to work on winning
business cases equally when it comes to
protect value entire reporting area
today if I may use the words like an
alphabet soup there are multiple Global
regulations local regulations and many
areas in my availability Partners who
help us to stitch and get more clarity
in this area uh as the safer is a large
job to be done to bring Clarity in these
areas so that you don't end up making a
reporting which is does not truly
reflect what business performance has
been in the area of sustainability so
it's both creating value and protect
value in my mind every CF has to do in
the age of PhD
data and digital to your mind I think
digitization and data are very critical
to sustain sustainability I would say uh
and I think as ritesh mentioned uh
overall led by data we need to have a
single version of Truth and I would say
near to real time uh monitoring for
actionable insights all right and I
think there are four goals I think as
we're looking at it I think how do you
first scientifically measure and
Baseline where you are I think that's
very critical with the right standards
uh uh right that are involved uh second
is how do you really Benchmark and
continuously monitor right it's not a
one-time exercise yeah how do we embed
this into business as usual uh I think
uh third is definitely as you start to
take actions uh and and initiatives uh
how are you improving the performance
right to create value for the
organization I think is very critical
and last and not the least I think
certainly how do you communicate in a
manner uh that creates confidence and
and also demonstrate the underlying
business case that we are trying to
solve I think from a data standpoint
just at a more operational level I think
there are three data models that we've
been working with uh one as we look at
data from sustainability is data that
Enterprise emits right so we were to
look at Unilever within the four walls
of Unilever right right from buy make
move sell there's a lot of data that is
being emitting right across uh you know
the business transaction I think that's
one Enterprise data as we call it but
the larger chunk is certainly the supply
chain data right the ecosystem how do
you really measure across your third
parties and even your fourth parties one
would say and I would say third is even
external data right so in terms of
intelligence from a sectoral standpoint
uh you know what are the perceptions or
or assessment from an investor
standpoint what is it that your
consumers are saying right so external
intelligence so and and we believe the
uh the the third party data uh the
external data and the intelligence and
benchmarking I think is very very
critical uh to create comparative
differentiation and why you've given us
plenty of insights what would you say
are the key learnings for India Inc to
take away for those who are embarking on
this ESG Journey now so I think we are
all learning I would say uh you know in
this complex roadmap but certainly uh I
think it's one is as ritesh mentioned
sustainability is everyone's business uh
second I would say all leading
organization uh now need to be on a
transition plan uh you know on a pathway
Net Zero I think is very very critical
uh even we at ey like Unilever have
taken a net zero Target and we are on
our journey uh third I would say I think
sectoral inputs are very very important
right because we believe environmental
and social are very sectoral while
governance is agnostic so you know how
do we sectorize this journey uh I think
teaming is very critical it's a it's a
it's a cross steaming sport uh right you
have to team across the organization
across uh the ecosystem I think so
collaboration is very very critical uh
driving change is all about change
management initiative and how do you
positively influence uh I think to drive
changes very critical I think we talked
about the role of data and digitization
from day one uh to help accelerate I
think that's very critical and uh I
think as ritesh touched upon I think the
role of Finance as stewards to really
drive this across the organization is
very very critical and to build trust
within the journey with the data-led
approach is very critical so that I
would say the two other key bits if you
want to add from you know sum it up
environmental all boil down to a
challenge of leadership uh leaders will
have to make a transition from giving
the right answer to asking the right
question in the area of ESG together I
think we need to make a very firm strong
commitment and make this decade count
yeah count for the progress on ESG not
only as organization but also as a
country and hence in my mind it's
leadership that will ultimate a
difference in this area no absolutely
well and that is the takeaway for the
role of the industry as well in what
they could do to further some of these
important goals on that note uh ritesh
and nitesh thank you very much it's been
a pleasure speaking to both of you and I
hope our audiences had a lot to take
away especially those that are just
embarking on this journey a very
important one at that so thank you thank
you for your time both of you thank you
thank you thank you thanks thank you
well that was Hindustan unilever's
journey to make sustainable living a
common place well that's it then on this
edition of transformation realized
powered by evi which is the six part
series that we bring to you inspiring
stories of business transformation
powered by people technology and
Innovation so stay tuned to CNBC tv18
for more
[Music]
Focus
ideate innovate enable